Chainguard Repository for Java (#3316)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/libraries/java/global-configuration.md

Reviewer: this reads a bit confusing with the Chainguard Repo now in place - can we say something like "Use the following steps to setup a repository in Cloudsmith to access Chainguard Java Libraries via the Chainguard Repository"

Reviewer: same comment for the other artifact managers - we will need to test this first ofc, but we should be saying something like "this is how you setup access to Chainguard Libraries for Java via the Chainguard Repository". We should add a caveat that Maven is the only upstream repo supported today (customers may still need to manage other upstream repos within Artifactory/Nexus/etc) until we add those.

repository manager acts as a single point of access for developers and
development tools to retrieve the required libraries.

> If your organization uses the [upstream fallback](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#upstream-fallback-and-controls)

Reviewer 2: This paragraph is good but would it make sense to frontload the recommendation, like this:

```suggestion
The recommended approach is to use the [upstream fallback](https://deploy-preview-3316--ornate-narwhal-088216.netlify.app/chainguard/libraries/overview/#upstream-fallback-and-controls) feature of Chainguard Repository, which allows you to configure your repository manager with a single upstream pointed at https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/. The Chainguard Repository handles fallback and policy enforcement; your repository manager handles local caching and access control. Chainguard also retrieves packages from the public Maven Central repository on your behalf when upstream fallback is enabled. This includes protections such as malware detection and a cooldown period for newly published packages.
```

fallback](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#upstream-fallback-and-controls)
feature of Chainguard Repository, which allows you to configure your repository
manager with a single upstream pointed at `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/`. The
Chainguard Repository handles fallback and policy enforcement; your repository
manager handles local caching and access control. Chainguard also retrieves
packages from the public Maven Central repository on your behalf when upstream

> fallback is enabled. This includes protections such as malware detection and a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fallback is enabled. This includes protections such as malware scanning and a
```

> malware detection and a cooldown period for newly published

Reviewer 3: I asked in slack if this is really true fyi .. I cant really imagine we are really doing malware scanning on Java artifacts .. at least not reasonably

cooldown period for newly published packages.

At a high level, adopting the use of Chainguard Libraries consists of the following steps:

* Configure your environment to use `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/`
  as the single upstream source for JavaScript package retrieval. This can be done
  either:
    * As a remote repository in your repository manager, or
    * Directly in your Java build configuration (for example, Maven or Gradle).

> * Additional steps depend on the desired insights and can include the following

Reviewer: "Additional recommended steps depend on your specific environment and preferences"?

optional measures:
    * Remove all cached artifacts in the proxy repository of Maven Central and other

>   repositories. This step allows you to validate which libraries are not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Remove all cached artifacts for Maven Central. This step allows you to validate which libraries are not
```

Reviewer: maybe something like "This ensures that any libraries you pull are from Chainguard Libraries, and not existing cached artifacts from upstream"?

  available from Chainguard Libraries and proceed with potential next steps with
  Chainguard and your own development efforts. 
    * Remove any repositories that are no longer desired or necessary. Depending on
  your library requirements this step can result in removal of some proxy

>   repositories or even removal of all proxy repositories. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Remove any repositories that are no longer desired or necessary, depending on
your organization's preferences.
```

repository manager acts as a single point of access for developers and
development tools to retrieve the required libraries.

The recommended approach is to use the [upstream
fallback](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#upstream-fallback-and-controls)
feature of Chainguard Repository, which allows you to configure your repository
manager with a single upstream pointed at `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/`. The
Chainguard Repository handles fallback and policy enforcement; your repository
manager handles local caching and access control. Chainguard also retrieves
packages from the public Maven Central repository on your behalf when upstream
fallback is enabled. This includes protections such as malware scanning and a
cooldown period for newly published packages.

At a high level, adopting the use of Chainguard Libraries consists of the following steps:

* Configure your environment to use `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/`

>   as the single upstream source for JavaScript package retrieval. This can be done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  as the single upstream source for Java package retrieval. This can be done
```

  either:
    * As a remote repository in your repository manager, or
    * Directly in your Java build configuration (for example, Maven or Gradle).
* Additional steps depend on your specific environment and preferences, and can include the following
optional measures:
    * Remove all cached artifacts for Maven Central. This step ensures that any libraries you pull are from Chainguard Libraries, and not existing cached artifacts from upstream. 
    * Remove any repositories that are no longer desired or necessary, depending on your organization's preferences. 

> Adopting the use of a repository manager is the recommended approach, however if

Reviewer: For this section, we should just say that you can use Java Libraries either with a repository manager, or by pulling directly from Chainguard.

tools](/chainguard/libraries/java/build-configuration/#direct-access) for more
information.

### Manually managing fallback
Chainguard recommends using the Chainguard Repository's built-in [upstream
fallback](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#upstream-fallback-and-controls)
rather than configuring a public registry fallback in your repo manager.
Configuring your own fallback bypasses the protection that the Chainguard
Repository provides.

However, if upstream fallback is not enabled or you prefer to manage your own fallback
ordering, you can configure `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/` as a remote
repository alongside your Maven upstream, and combine them in a virtual or group
repository with Chainguard as the first priority. The per-tool instructions on
this page follow this pattern. 

> Before configuring your own fallback, consider how you want to handle packages that aren't yet available in the Chainguard Libraries repository. If you configure a fallback to Maven Central, packages sourced from that registry are not covered by Chainguard's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before configuring your own fallback, consider how you want to handle packages that aren't yet built by Chainguard. If you configure a fallback to Maven Central, packages sourced from that registry are not covered by Chainguard's
```

tools](/chainguard/libraries/java/build-configuration/#direct-access) for more
information.

### Manually managing fallback
Chainguard recommends using the Chainguard Repository's built-in [upstream
fallback](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#upstream-fallback-and-controls)
rather than configuring a public registry fallback in your repo manager.
Configuring your own fallback bypasses the protection that the Chainguard
Repository provides.

However, if upstream fallback is not enabled or you prefer to manage your own fallback
ordering, you can configure `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/` as a remote
repository alongside your Maven upstream, and combine them in a virtual or group
repository with Chainguard as the first priority. The per-tool instructions on
this page follow this pattern. 

> Before configuring manual fallback, consider how you want to handle packages that aren't yet available in the Chainguard Libraries repository. If you configure a fallback to Maven Central, packages sourced from that registry are not covered by Chainguard's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before configuring your own fallback, consider how you want to handle packages that aren't yet available in the Chainguard Libraries repository. If you configure a fallback to Maven Central, packages sourced from that registry are not covered by Chainguard's
```
